Add doc for binary format support in k-NN (#7840)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/supported-field-types/knn-vector.md

## Model IDs

> Model IDs are used when the underlying Approximate k-NN algorithm requires a training step. As a prerequisite, the model has to be created with the [Train API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/api#train-a-model). The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Model IDs are used when the underlying Approximate k-NN algorithm requires a training step. As a prerequisite, the model must be created with the [Train API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/api#train-a-model). The
```

return Byte(bval)
```
{% include copy.html %}

## Binary k-NN vectors

You can reduce memory costs by a factor of 32 by switching from float to binary vectors.
Using binary vector indexes can lower operational costs while maintaining high recall performance, making large-scale deployment more economical and efficient.

Binary format is available for the following k-NN search types:

> - [Approximate k-NN]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/approximate-knn/): Supports binary vectors only for the Faiss engine with HNSW and IVF algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Approximate k-NN]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/approximate-knn/): Supports binary vectors only for the Faiss engine with the HNSW and IVF algorithms.
```

- [Script score k-NN]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/knn-score-script/): Enables the use of binary vectors in script scoring.
- [Painless extensions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/painless-functions/): Allows the use of binary vectors with Painless scripting extensions.

### Requirements 

> There are several requirements for using binary vectors in OpenSearch k-NN plugin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several requirements for using binary vectors in the OpenSearch k-NN plugin:
```

- The `data_type` of the binary vector index must be `binary`.
- The `space_type` of the binary vector index must be `hamming`.
- The `dimension` of the binary vector index must be a multiple of 8.

> - You must convert your binary data into 8-bit signed integers (`int8`) in the [-128, 127] range. For example, the binary sequence of eight bits `0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1` must be converted into its equivalent byte value of `99` to be used as a binary vector input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You must convert your binary data into 8-bit signed integers (`int8`) in the [-128, 127] range. For example, the binary sequence of 8 bits `0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1` must be converted into its equivalent byte value of `99` to be used as a binary vector input.
```

      "my_vector1": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 8,
        "data_type": "binary",
        "method": {
          "name": "hnsw",
          "space_type": "hamming",
          "engine": "faiss",
          "parameters": {
            "ef_construction": 128,
            "m": 24
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Then ingest some documents containing binary vectors:

```json
PUT _bulk?refresh=true
{"index": {"_index": "test-binary-hnsw", "_id": "1"}}
{"my_vector": [7], "price": 4.4}
{"index": {"_index": "test-binary-hnsw", "_id": "2"}}
{"my_vector": [10], "price": 14.2}
{"index": {"_index": "test-binary-hnsw", "_id": "3"}}
{"my_vector": [15], "price": 19.1}
{"index": {"_index": "test-binary-hnsw", "_id": "4"}}
{"my_vector": [99], "price": 1.2}
{"index": {"_index": "test-binary-hnsw", "_id": "5"}}
{"my_vector": [80], "price": 16.5}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

When querying, be sure to use a binary vector:

```json
GET /test-binary-hnsw/_search
{
  "size": 2,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "my_vector1": {
        "vector": [9],
        "k": 2
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Example: IVF

> 

Reviewer: Is there any other language we can use other than "IVF method", given the connotation?

Author: "IVF" is the algorithm method in ANN, we currently just support IVF and HNSW for binary format.

Explained at: https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/pull/7840/files#diff-7c24a2151147d0a671328b59d626a542a6ed82e3238a7f2827ff8d41e1aef49eR277

Method definition:
```
A method definition refers to the underlying configuration of the approximate k-NN algorithm you want to use.
```
https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/knn-index/#method-definitions

> The IVF method requires a training step that creates and trains the model that is used to initialize the native library index during segment creation. For more information, see [Building a k-NN index from a model]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/approximate-knn/#building-a-k-nn-index-from-a-model). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IVF method requires a training step that creates and trains the model used to initialize the native library index during segment creation. For more information, see [Building a k-NN index from a model]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/approximate-knn/#building-a-k-nn-index-from-a-model). 
```

> First, create an index that will contain binary vector training data. Specify the Faiss engine and IVF algorithm and make sure the `dimension` matches the dimension of the model you want to create:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create an index that will contain binary vector training data. Specify the Faiss engine and IVF algorithm and make sure that the `dimension` matches the dimension of the model you want to create:
```

```json
PUT train-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "train-field": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 8,
        "data_type": "binary"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Ingest training data containing binary vectors to the training index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ingest training data containing binary vectors into the training index:
```

```json
PUT _bulk
{ "index": { "_index": "train-index", "_id": "1" } }
{ "train-field": [1] }
{ "index": { "_index": "train-index", "_id": "2" } }
{ "train-field": [2] }
{ "index": { "_index": "train-index", "_id": "3" } }
{ "train-field": [3] }
{ "index": { "_index": "train-index", "_id": "4" } }
{ "train-field": [4] }
{ "index": { "_index": "train-index", "_id": "5" } }
{ "train-field": [5] }
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Then, create and train the model named `test-binary-model`. The model will train using the training data from the `train_field` in the `train-index`. Specify the `binary` data type and `hamming` space type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create and train the model named `test-binary-model`. The model will be trained using the training data from the `train_field` in the `train-index`. Specify the `binary` data type and `hamming` space type:
```

```json
POST _plugins/_knn/models/test-binary-model/_train
{
  "training_index": "train-index",
  "training_field": "train-field",
  "dimension": 8,
  "description": "model with binary data",
  "data_type": "binary",
  "method": {
    "name": "ivf",
    "engine": "faiss",
    "space_type": "hamming",
    "parameters": {
      "nlist": 1,
      "nprobes": 1
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

To check the model training status, call the Get Model API:

```json
GET _plugins/_knn/models/test-binary-model?filter_path=state
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Once the training is complete, the `state` changes to `created`.

Next, create an index that will initialize its native library indexes using the trained model:

```json
PUT test-binary-ivf
{
  "settings": {
    "index": {
      "knn": true
    }
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "my_vector": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "model_id": "test-binary-model"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Ingest the data that contains binary vectors you want to search into the created index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ingest the data containing the binary vectors that you want to search into the created index:
```

        "method": {
          "name": "hnsw",
          "space_type": "hamming",
          "engine": "faiss",
          "parameters": {
            "ef_construction": 128,
            "m": 24
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Then ingest some documents with binary vectors:

```json
PUT _bulk?refresh=true
{"index": {"_index": "test-binary-hnsw", "_id": "1"}}
{"my_vector": [7], "price": 4.4}
{"index": {"_index": "test-binary-hnsw", "_id": "2"}}
{"my_vector": [10], "price": 14.2}
{"index": {"_index": "test-binary-hnsw", "_id": "3"}}
{"my_vector": [15], "price": 19.1}
{"index": {"_index": "test-binary-hnsw", "_id": "4"}}
{"my_vector": [99], "price": 1.2}
{"index": {"_index": "test-binary-hnsw", "_id": "5"}}
{"my_vector": [80], "price": 16.5}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

When querying, be sure to use a binary vector:

```json
GET test-binary-hnsw/_search
{
  "size": 2,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "my_vector1": {
        "vector": [9],
        "k": 2
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The follow example demonstrates how to create a binary vector index with the Faiss engine and IVF algorithm:

> Firstly, we need create the training index and model in binary format. For convenience, we use above `test-binary-hnsw` index and `my_vector1` field as the training index and field to train model.

Reviewer 2: Could you add how to prepare training index without using hnsw?
We can use this index mapping.
```
PUT test-binary
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "my_vector1": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 8,
        "data_type": "binary"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Author: We currently only support Faiss HNSW and IVF type index, so the above suggestion mapping by default uses `nmslib` engine which I think will be invalid input.

Reviewer 2: It is valid. It is just storing binary vector without knn index.

Author: Thanks, updated

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response contains two vectors closest to the query vector:

Reviewer: "the" two vectors

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response contains two vectors closest to the query vector:

Reviewer: Same
